So, Cloud Code's source code just got
leaked to the internet. 2,000 files,
over half a million lines of production
code, the actual code base behind Cloud
Code. Here's what happened. Enthropic
published an MPM package that included a
source map file pointing to readable
TypeScript source on their servers. A
security researcher found it, followed
the breadcrumbs, and the full source was
mirrored publicly on GitHub within
hours. It went super viral. So, I went
through everything that people found and
I went through the codebase and I pulled
out every practical insight that will
actually change how you use cloud code.
I'm talking hidden commands that most
people have no idea exist, how context
and tokens actually work under the hood,
and what the architecture reveals about
features most users never touch. I broke
it down into eight key insights that
we're going to talk about today, and
each one builds on the previous one. The
first few will change how you think
about the tool, but the last one ties
everything together into a system, and
that's where the real leverage is. So,
by the end of this video, you'll know
how to use Cloud Code like a top 1%
user. So, let's get into it. Okay, I do
have to start off with a quick
disclaimer. I'm not going to show you
guys any of the actual source code in
this video, and I'd encourage you to be
careful if you go downloading it
yourself. Even though this leaked
through a public MPM package, Enthropic
still owns the copyright, they've shown
that they're willing to send DMCA
takedown notices. So, everything I'm
covering is just based on takeaways of
how you can use the tool better. All
right, so just to start off real quick
and to give you a taste of what's in
this codebase, you know those little
messages that you see while Claude Code
is thinking? That's a file with 187
spinner verbs in it. You've got normal
ones like computing or generating, but
then you've also got funny ones like
boondoggling, discombobulating,
fibridding,
moonwalking, things like that. And
someone at Enthropic got paid to write
187 of these. I just think, you know,
that's the energy that I want from the
people that are building my tools. But
anyways, that's just a quick appetizer.
Let's get into the stuff that actually
matters here. So, starting off with
number one. It's not what you think it
is. The first thing this leak reveals is
that Claude code is not what most people
think it is because most people think
that it's basically just like Claude but
in your terminal like a chatbot with
access to your local files. And that's
completely wrong. What the source code
shows is that Claude Code is a full
agent runtime. It's a proper application
built with bun TypeScript and React. It
has a tool system, a command system, a
memory system, a permission engine, a
task manager, a multi-agent coordinator,
and an MCP client and server all wired
together under one execution pipeline.
So the flow goes, your input hits a CLI
parser. It goes to something called the
query engine, calls the LLM API, runs a
tool execution loop, and then renders
results back in your terminal. So I know
that sound like a bunch of gibberish. So
why does this matter to you? Because if
you're using Cloud Code like a chatbot,
meaning you're just typing questions and
hoping for good answers, you're using
maybe 10% of what it can actually do.
The rest of the value is in the systems
that are built around the model. And
that's what the rest of this video is
about. So the second piece is the
command service that you're ignoring.
Here's something that most people don't
realize about cloud code that the source
code revealed there's 85 slashcomands in
cloud code roughly. Most users may know
maybe five of them. You probably type
/help and that's about it or maybe
slashcontext. But the power users, the
ones getting 10 times more value out of
cloud code are using commands like
shortcuts. Here are the ones that matter
most. You've got /init which sets up
your project context. It generates a
cloudmd file that acts as cloud code's
operating manual for your repository.
And we'll talk more about why this file
is so important in a second. We also
have slash plan or slult plan. These put
cloud code into planning mode. Instead
of immediately executing, it maps out
the full approach first and then it asks
you before it starts touching files. And
this is huge when you're working on
something complex and you don't want it
to just start editing things everywhere.
You're also going to save tokens in the
long run doing this. You've got
/compact. And this is a big one for
saving money. When your conversation
gets long, context gets expensive. So
/compact compresses your conversation
history. So you can keep the important
stuff but drop the noise. And if you're
burning through tokens, this is one of
the fastest fixes. You can also do
/compact and then give it a prompt. So
if you want to compact a project but
keep all of the important information
about the website integration, you can
specify that when you run your
compaction. Then we have /re
and/security review. These are built-in
code review workflows. Instead of asking
cloud code to look at my code, you just
use these commands and it runs a
structured review. And the fact that
these exist as dedicated commands tells
you something that review isn't an
afterthought in this product. It is a
first class workflow. Then we have
/context. This manages what files cloud
code is actually paying attention to.
This matters because every file in
context costs you tokens. So this
command gives you more visibility so you
can help, you know, clean up your
project. /cost. This one shows you what
you've actually spent. Most people
usually have no idea how much a session
is costing them until they look at the
bill. So run /cost. Then we have slume
and slummary. These let you pick up
where you left off between sessions
without having to reexplain everything.
And that's only the tip of the iceberg
when it comes to all of these different
built-in commands. The point is better
prompts are one lever, but knowing these
commands is a completely separate lever
that most people aren't even touching.
Next one, number three, we have the
memory system, and it is way more
important than you think. The source
code here reveals that Cloud Code has a
full memory system, and the center of it
is a file called cloud.md. Now, most
people either ignore this file or dump a
bunch of random notes into it, and
that's a huge mistake because claw.md is
not documentation. It's operating
context. So, think of it like this, and
you guys know I love analogies. If
Claude Code is an employee, then claw.md
is their onboarding document. It tells
them, "Here's how we do things. Here's
what matters. Here's what we never do,
and here's how this project is
structured." The best users keep the
cloudmd file short, opinionated, and
operational. Things like, "We use
TypeScript strict mode." Always. Tests
go in test folders next to the source
file. Never modify the database schema
without running migrations. Use PNPM,
not npm, that kind of stuff. decision
rules, constraints, conventions, not a
novel about your project's history. The
source also reveals that there are
multiple layers to this. You've got user
level memory, extracted memories, and
even team memory synchronization. What
that tells us is that cloud code has
persistent memory mechanisms across
project, user, and session contexts. And
cloudMD is one of the highest leverage
inputs shaping how it behaves in future
sessions. So, if you get nothing else
from this video, go update your cloud.MD
file today, whether that's on the global
level or the project level. And
remember, these get injected every
single session before every single chat.
All right, number four, we have that
permissions are why Claude might feel
slow. If you've used Cloud Code, you've
hit this. You ask it to do something and
it keeps asking, "Allow me to do this.
Will you allow me to do this? Can I run
this? Can I edit this?" And it's really
annoying. And most people think the fix
is better prompting, but it's not. The
fix is permissions. The source code
shows us a deep permission system with
multiple modes. default mode where it
asks you about everything, plan mode,
and then there are things like bypass
permissions or auto modes where it can
just execute. But here's the real gem.
You can set wild card permissions. So
things like allow all git commands or
allow all file edits in my src folder.
So instead of cloud code asking you 15
times, can I run git status or can I
edit this file? Can I run this test? You
set the rule once and then it just
works. So for recurring workflows, stuff
that you do every day, this is one of
the highest ROI changes that you can
make. So in your settings.local.json or
in your settings.json, JSON, you can set
global or user level or project level
permissions for things that you always
want to allow or have it always deny or
have it always ask to do. And this lets
you go from babysitting every action to
actually being able to let it operate
like an agent while you step away. So
number five is that it is built for
multi-agent work. And this one surprised
me. The source code reveals a full
coordinator subsystem, agent tools, team
tools, and a task system designed for
background and parallel work. So what
does this mean in plain English? that
the architecture is clearly built to
support decomposition, splitting work
across multiple agents that can run in
parallel. So think one agent exploring
your codebase, another one implementing
changes, and another validating tests.
There are even concepts in the source
for background tasks, work that
continues while you're focused on
something else. Now, how much of this is
fully userfacing today versus still
rolling out? That's a little bit harder
to say from the source alone, but the
architecture makes the intent clear,
which is that cloud code is designed to
handle complex multi-step work by
breaking it apart, not by cramming it
all into one thread. The practical
takeaway here is about how you structure
your requests instead of one massive
prompt like refactor this entire module,
update the tests, and fix the
documentation. Break that up. Let cloud
code decompose the work. Think about it
the same way I talk about workflows
versus agents in something like NADN or
just in general. The best results come
from breaking complex work into clear
sequential steps or in this case
parallel steps rather than hoping that
one giant general instruction to one
giant general agent gets everything
right. All right, so number six is about
MCP plugins and skills being the real
extension layer. If you've been
following my channel, you know that I've
talked a lot about MCP, which is model
context protocol. And here's what the
source code confirms. MCP isn't just
supported by cloud code, but it's kind
of baked into the architecture. Cloud
code is both an MCP client and an MCP
server. It can connect to external tools
through MCP and other systems can
connect to it. But it does go beyond
MCP. The source also reveals a skills
and plug-in layer. Meaning power users
can build repeatable workflows, custom
capabilities, and domain specific
extensions that compound over time. It's
not just about connecting to one tool.
It's about building an ecosystem around
cloud code that makes it smarter for
your specific work. This is where cloud
code stops being just a coding tool and
it starts being an integration layer.
You can connect it to databases, APIs,
internal tools, documentation systems,
anything with an MCP server and then you
can layer skills and plugins on top for
the stuff that you do repeatedly. Now,
the more systems you connect it to, the
more useful it becomes. So, the power of
course isn't the tool itself. It's what
you connect to and the workflows that
you start to automate and build with it.
Okay, number seven. There are features
that we don't even have access to yet.
And this one's super interesting because
the codebase includes checks for
something called user type. And one of
the values is ant which means anthropic.
What this tells us is that certain
capabilities are gated behind internal
feature flags. The source references
things like voice mode. You know, a
system called chyros, a damon mode, and
a coordinator mode. All behind flags
that suggest that they're either
internal, experimental, or maybe being
rolled out gradually. Now, I want to be
honest here. We can't say for sure how
different the internal experience
actually is. Some of these could be
early prototypes. Some might be close to
shipping publicly. The source alone
doesn't tell us that. But what it does
confirm is that cloud code is heavily
feature flagged, meaning different users
may already be getting meaningfully
different experiences depending on their
environment, their build, or their
rollout group. The practical takeaway is
pay attention to cloud code updates.
Capabilities that are flagged or limited
today are likely on the road map. And
when they land, the people who already
understand the architecture, like you
watching this video, will be ready to
use them immediately. I mean, think
about how many features and tools cloud
code has been shipping lately. It's
because they've all been already built
and tested internally. I've heard rumors
that computer use has been around for a
long, long time, but they just released
those functions now that they were
ready. Moving on to number eight, we
have how to actually use this to save
money and to get better results. Let me
tie all of this together with what I
think matters most. The habits that
separate top 1% users from everyone
else. And the single biggest insight
from this entire source code is this.
Top users don't just write better
prompts. They design a better operating
environment for their cla code. Here's
what that looks like in practice. First,
treat claw.mmd like a force multiplier.
Keep it short. Keep it opinionated.
Update it regularly. Route to other
files. This single file shapes every
interaction that you have with cloud
code. Second, learn the command service.
You don't need all 85 commands, but /
plan/compact/context,
review, cost, and resume. These types of
commands will change your daily workflow
immediately. Third, configure
permissions for your recurring
workflows. Stop babysitting every
action. Set wildcard rules for the stuff
that you do every day. Fourth, think in
terms of decomposition, not monolithic
prompts. So break complex work into a
search phase, a plan phase, an execute
phase, a verify phase. Let Claude code
use its architecture the way that it was
actually designed to. Otherwise, it
might feel like you're trying to shoot
an American football through a
basketball hoop. That's not what it was
designed to do. Fifth, manage your
context like it's money, because it
literally is. Use /compact when
conversations get long. Use /context to
control what's loaded. Use/summary
and/resume to carry work across sessions
without losing your important details.
Every unnecessary file in context is
tokens that you're paying for. And
context management isn't just a nice to
have, but it is an actual discipline.
It's something that you need to build a
habit around. Sixth, connect things to
it. Whether that's MCP servers or CLIs
or plugins or skills, the more tools
that Cloud Code can access, the more
valuable it actually becomes. And
seventh, treat it like infrastructure,
not an app. The source reveals a massive
configuration surface. model routing,
sub agent model overrides, shell
behavior, privacy controls, even the
ability to route through different cloud
backends like AWS Bedrock or Google
Vertex. Most people never touch these
settings, but if you're using Cloud Code
seriously, there's real leverage in
tuning the environment to fit your
workflow. Anyways, that's what was
hiding inside of Cloud Code source code.
And I know that that was a ton of
information, and I wanted to move as
quick as I could so I didn't bore you
guys in this video. So, I broke all of
this stuff that we talked about and more
into a full resource guide that you can
access for completely free. You get that
inside of my free school community and
the link for that is down in the
description. But anyways, that's going
to do it for today. So, if you enjoyed
the video or you learned something new,
please give it a like. Definitely helps
me out a ton. And as always, I
appreciate you guys making it to the end
of the video. I'll see you on the next
one. Thanks everyone.